I made a lot of shots in Spitsbergen,
more than I can ever use in normal videos, so I thought I'd take some time to show them,
and at the same time explain how to get there, what you can do there,
and whether it is worthwhile to go on this adventure.
I'm no longer there, but in an old fortress in Oslo,
what kind of resting place during the return journey.
Tim and Matt, the people I travel with, each do their own thing.
We have been packed for three to four days and can no longer stand each other.
So I thought, let me deal with some frequently asked questions
while at the same time I show you beautiful recordings of the North Pole.
How do you get there?
Spitsbergen has become much more accessible in recent years.
We expected to have to apply for many visas and permits, but none of them.
First, no one needs a visa for Spitsbergen, although it is necessary to go via Norway,
So if you are allowed to enter Norway, Spitsbergen is open for you.
You just book a flight. Matt, Tim and I were shocked by that; we just booked from our phones
and from a resaurant. We expected to take a kind of special tour,
or a scientific license. It does not work like that. You go online, book a flight to Spitsbergen,
with destination Longyearbyan Airport. And it is a normal, modern airport as elsewhere.
You book a flight, you book a hotel, the hotel is on the normal booking sites.
There is a Scandic and a Radisson. We stayed in the coalmine workers' huts,
who have an incredible history, and had the only free rooms when we wanted to go.
It is difficult to say. Compared internationally, the facilities are provisional, without their own bathrooms,
you have to walk through the hall to take a shower, but in practical terms there is hot and cold tap water,
and even fast Wi-Fi connection!
It is just like arranging a holiday elsewhere.
It is slightly more expensive because you go to the polar circle,
but the flights are not really noticeably worse than in other remote areas.
It's practically the same.
The hotel also had a fair price.
Spitsbergen is tax-free, so it's expensive to buy something, but it's similar to London,
because there are no taxes on top.
We came back on a scheduled flight from Norwegian Airlines,
and they are practically the Jet Blue,
or the EasyJet from Scandinavia.
You go.
How "extreme" is a visit to Longyearbyen?
Spitsbergen is not remote, although that is physically true,
after all, you are 78 degrees in the north. When we were at the airport, we were
one of the thousand or perhaps 500 most northerly people on the planet, which is best one
strong claim to be able to make.
But at the same time there is fast Wi-Fi in all hotels.
Oh, and they use credit cards everywhere; even on the bus that you get from the airport
to the hotel they accept credit cards and bank cards.
If you have something that works in Europe and has a chip and pin code,
then it will be all right.
There is fast 3G and I think 4G. We posted messages on Instagram and Twitter.
It just works.
They have a submarine cable, not even satellite internet.
It is fast, just like everywhere else, in a city in Norway.
What is there to do?
There are two types of people who want to see this,
the one is: "This is pretty fun, I will not go, I prefer something more comfortable."
That is a good choice and I respect that.
And then there are people like me who saw pictures of Longyearbyen -
I think I was wrong ... "Longyearbean," I do not get the vowels right - they saw pictures of them
and they thought, "Oh, here I want to go, this is great!"
What is there to see?
As a tourist, and let's face it unless you are part of a scientific expedition
or doing a study in microbiology at the poles
- like someone we met on the bus from the airport,
Unless you do something like that, you're just a tourist.
There are travel organizations,
and it works the same as anywhere else in the world.
You look it up on the Internet, google it, look at the organizations,
"I want to do this, I want to do that."
We went on a tour with a minibus through the local areas, which I absolutely recommend,
because you can not leave the settlement without a firearm (!)
It is also quite far away.
We visited the seed vault,
we caught at least a glimpse of the solar research station that is there,
and we got to hear stories about the city and the people who lived there,
and I can certainly recommend that.
We also went kayaking in a fjord,
what is hard work. My muscles hurt.
But if you want it, it must be in the summer.
If you go in winter or in spring you can take the snowmobile, or "ice scooter," over the fjord.
Besides kayaking, we also went on a speed boat trip.
What I recommend, but you have to be aware that you sit on a somewhat uncomfortable saddle chair for about five hours.
You know the short trips, bounce over the water. That is this too, but then for hours.
If you want to, do it. It is awesome. You get to see the glaciers and stand on something that looks like Mars, or the Moon.
After all, there are no trees on the poles. Geology and geography are like nowhere else on Earth.
And you can do things that you can not do anywhere else.
More options: a dog sled, on irons or wheels depending on the season;
you can take a long, slow boat trip to Pyramids, the deserted Russian mining village,
what is now a ghost town with the northernmost statue of Lenin;
and much, much more.
Do research, see if the travel organization is reliable, but honestly ...
There are few crimes in Spitsbergen because only a few thousand people live there.
Most people know each other.
And there is little to ... ah, I can imagine that 'crimes against the person' exist.
There are people who get drunk in the bar and someone outside in the polar night a blow sell,
but crime is not very common here.
I think that an organization that lights up people would soon be chased away.
What you need to bring?
You must bring suitable outer clothing for the season.
We went during the hottest time of the year,
which was about six to eight degrees Celcius, so early-mid forty degrees Fahrenheit.
Large waterproof windbreakers with gloves were fine.
You do not need much more if you go.
If you go in the winter, I assume you know how to survive the pool.
That is certainly necessary. In summer, you need sunscreen.
It may be cold, but that does not mean that it is unnecessary. We were constantly spreading it.
That must be real.
You also need to bring a pair of shoes that can easily be put on and off.
So from those big outer shoes, preferably easy to loose and tie.
And then you still need indoor shoes.
The reason is that in Spitsbergen it is customary to stay in a hotel, restaurant, or something in that spirit,
take off your shoes, pull those big, dirty, frozen chests, and something more comfortable.
This is much easier if you take something that goes well
instead of the plastic disposable shoes that are available for people who forget this.
And it's handy if you can quickly unbutton the laces of your big, heavy crates.
I did not have easy laces,
and I had to leave my hotel room, go outside, put on my shoes,
take ten steps to the place where you had breakfast and take them off again.
Take comfortable shoes, and shoes with easy to tie laces.
Make sure you have good gloves; for what you will do, you will need them.
So: sunscreen, good shoes, gloves and a camera.
Almost everything is arranged by the travel agencies if you use them.
There are stores here. I keep saying, this is not a remote outpost, this is a city.
It is only quite far from the rest of the civilized world.
What should you avoid?
If you are wise, you do not have much to fear: do not leave the settlements, follow the instructions.
It will be all right. There is nothing to worry about.
I give up all the reputations I would get with this, but
All in all, this is a regular attraction like many others.
It is obscure and remote, and it sounds impressive.
But it is so much easier than ten twenty years ago; you can just go.
Translated by / Translated by Gamesaucer